**Title: {The Impact of Digital Transformation on Performance and the
Cultural Industry: Challenges and Opportunities}**

PhD Leeds Doctoral College\
University of Leeds

By Heider Jeffer

June 19, 2024

# Introduction

The cultural industry, encompassing arts, entertainment, and heritage
sectors, has undergone significant changes due to digital
transformation. The infusion of digital technologies such as artificial
intelligence (AI), big data, and the Internet of Things (IoT) has
reshaped how cultural products are created, distributed, and consumed.
This study focuses on evaluating the impact of digital transformation on
performance within the cultural industry, identifying associated
challenges, and exploring emerging opportunities.

# Problem Statement

While the potential benefits of digital transformation in the cultural
industry are substantial, understanding its full impact on performance
remains underexplored. This research addresses the problem of assessing
how digital technologies affect the efficiency, effectiveness, and
overall performance of cultural organizations. The challenge lies in
quantifying these impacts and understanding the nuanced ways in which
digital transformation influences cultural production and consumption.

# Possible Research questions

Research questions for the title \"The Impact of Digital Transformation
on Performance and the Cultural Industry: Challenges and Opportunities\"
could include:

**RQ 1. Impact on Performance:**

-   How does digital transformation influence the operational efficiency
    and effectiveness of cultural institutions?

-   What are the key performance metrics affected by digital
    transformation in the cultural industry?

**RQ 2. Cultural Industry Transformation:**

-   How has digital transformation changed the production, distribution,
    and consumption patterns within the cultural industry?

-   What are the emerging business models in the cultural sector due to
    digital transformation?

**RQ 3. Challenges of Digital Transformation:**

-   What are the primary barriers or challenges cultural institutions
    face when adopting digital transformation initiatives?

-   How do regulatory frameworks and intellectual property rights affect
    digital transformation in the cultural industry?

**RQ 4. Opportunities Created:**

-   What new opportunities for revenue generation and audience
    engagement have emerged from digital transformation in the cultural
    sector?

-   How does digital transformation enhance cultural diversity and
    accessibility globally?

**RQ 5. Impact on Cultural Heritage Preservation:**

-   How does digital transformation influence the preservation and
    promotion of cultural heritage through technology?

-   What are the ethical implications of digitizing cultural artifacts
    and traditions?

**RQ 6. Comparison across Different Cultural Domains:**

-   How does the impact of digital transformation vary between different
    cultural domains (e.g., museums, performing arts, literature)?

-   What lessons can be learned from successful digital transformation
    initiatives in different cultural sectors?

**RQ 7. User Experience and Engagement:**

-   How does digital transformation enhance user experience and
    engagement with cultural content?

-   What are the factors influencing digital engagement and
    participation in cultural activities?

**RQ 8 Future Trends and Predictions:**

-   What are the anticipated future trends in digital transformation
    within the cultural industry?

-   How might advancements in technology (e.g., AI, VR/AR) further
    influence the cultural sector?

These questions aim to explore various aspects of how digital
transformation is shaping the cultural industry, identifying both
challenges and opportunities brought about by technological
advancements.

# Review of the Related Work

## What is Digital transformation?

-   **The cultural** **industry:** also known as the creative industry,
    encompasses businesses and activities that produce, create,
    distribute, and commercialize creative content and cultural products
    \[1\] \[2\] \[3\].

-   **Digital transformation (DT):** is the process by which an
    organization adopts and implements digital technology to create new
    or modify existing products, services, and operations by converting
    business processes into a digital format \[4\] \[5\] \[6\].

![A diagram of different types of industry Description automatically
generated](./images/media/image1.png){width="6.5in"
height="4.751388888888889in"}

-   T**he** **digital transformation of the** **cultural industry:** is
    cultural industry involves in the process by which organizations in
    this sector adopt and implement digital technology to create new or
    modify existing products, services, and operations by converting
    business processes into a digital format \[J. Heider 2024\].

## Finding studies

Digital transformation has become a significant topic of interest across
various industries, including the financial service industry, oil and
gas sector, automotive industry, and food retail industry.

-   Study 1: Dehnert \[7\] highlights the importance of understanding
    how digital transformation dimensions are connected to firm
    performance, with contradictory findings in existing research.

-   Study 2: Affonso et al \[8\] emphasize the need for innovation in
    the oil and gas industry, pointing out the risk-averse approach of
    traditional project management as a hindrance to progress.

-   Study 3: Llopis-Albert et al \[9\] utilize fuzzy-set qualitative
    comparative analysis to analyze the impact of digital transformation
    on business performance models in the automotive industry.

-   Study 4: In the context of the banking sector, Naimi-Sadigh et al
    \[10\] discuss the implementation of digital transformation to
    respond to disruptions and drive innovation in banking services.

-   Study 5: Manjula et al \[11\] focus on digital technologies in the
    food retail industry, identifying challenges and opportunities in
    the digital transformation process.

-   Study 6: Imran et al \[12\]  explore digital transformation in
    industrial organizations, aiming to identify key enablers and
    performance outcomes through data collected from leading industrial
    organizations.

-   Study 7: Furthermore, Kumar et al. \[13\] propose a framework for
    assessing the social acceptability of Industry 4.0 technologies in
    digital manufacturing, highlighting the importance of considering
    social dimensions in technological advancements.

-   Study 8: Ren et al. \[14\] shed light on the impact of digital
    transformation on renewable energy companies' performance in China,
    emphasizing the role of digital transformation in advancing the
    development of renewable energy enterprises.

-   Study 9: Zhao et al. \[15\] analyze the relationship between digital
    transformation strategy and ESG performance in large manufacturing
    enterprises, focusing on the mediating role of green innovation and
    sustainable development goals.

-   Study 10: Overall, the literature review indicates a growing
    interest in understanding the impact of digital transformation on
    performance across various industries, highlighting both challenges
    and opportunities that come with embracing digital technologies
    (Sartal et al., \[16\].

The need for innovation, strategic alignment, and the identification of
key enablers in the digital transformation process are recurring themes
in the literature, emphasizing the importance of leveraging digital
technologies to drive organizational success.

## Challenges

1.  **Digital Divide**: The digital divide can hinder access to digital
    technologies and platforms, creating barriers for those who are less
    tech-savvy or have limited resources \[17\] \[18\].
2.  **Copyright and Intellectual Property**: The use of digital
    technologies raises concerns about copyright and intellectual
    property, particularly in the context of digital assets and data
    management \[19\] \[18\].
3.  **Preservation of Cultural Heritage**: The digitization of cultural
    heritage poses challenges related to preservation, conservation, and
    the long-term accessibility of digital artifacts \[17\] \[20\].
4.  **Organizational Barriers**: The adoption of digital tools and
    processes can be hindered by organizational silos and a lack of
    understanding of the value of data \[19\].

## Opportunities

1.  **New Forms of Cultural Expression**: Digital technologies have
    enabled new forms of artistic expression, such as AR/VR, and have
    opened up new channels for cultural consumption and engagement
    \[17\] \[19\].
2.  **Increased Accessibility**: Digital platforms have increased access
    to art and culture, making it more inclusive and global \[17\] .
3.  **Collaboration and Networking**: Digital tools facilitate global
    collaboration and networking among artists, institutions, and
    audiences \[19\] \[20\].
4.  **Efficient Processes**: Digital transformation can streamline
    administrative processes, reducing errors and improving employee
    satisfaction \[19\].

## Strategies for Success

1.  **Data Interoperability**: Ensuring data interoperability is crucial
    for seamless end-to-end processes and for addressing copyright and
    intellectual property concerns \[18\].
2.  **Digital Literacy**: Developing digital literacy among artists,
    institutions, and audiences is essential for effective adoption and
    utilization of digital technologies \[19\] \[18\].
3.  **Collaborative Ecosystems**: Fostering collaborative ecosystems
    between tech startups and creative sectors can facilitate knowledge
    exchange and innovation \[18\].
4.  **Digital Sovereignty**: Establishing digital sovereignty through
    strategic policies and regulations can ensure the long-term
    sustainability and accessibility of digital cultural assets \[21\].

Overall, the impact of digital transformation on the cultural and
creative industries is complex, presenting both challenges and
opportunities. By understanding these dynamics and implementing
effective strategies, the industry can harness the potential of digital
technologies to enhance cultural expression, accessibility, and
collaboration.

# Gap in Literature

Current literature lacks a holistic analysis of the relationship between
digital transformation and performance metrics in the cultural industry.
Most studies focus on individual aspects such as technology adoption or
economic impacts, but few provide an integrated view that includes
challenges and opportunities across the sector.

# Significance

Addressing this gap is crucial for policymakers, cultural managers, and
stakeholders to make informed decisions that foster sustainable growth
in the cultural sector. Understanding the impact of digital
transformation on performance can guide strategic investments, enhance
cultural policy frameworks, and support the development of adaptive
strategies for cultural organizations.

# Methodology Preview

This research utilizes a mixed-methods approach, integrating
quantitative analysis of performance data from cultural organizations
with qualitative case studies and expert interviews. Data will be
sourced from industry reports, financial records, and surveys, drawing
on gray literature to offer a comprehensive overview.

\*This study is designed to be exploratory. The overall data collection
and analysis process is illustrated in the following UML diagram and
explained in detail in the subsequent text.

## Data Collection

(Gray literature and Primary data collection)

**Step 1:** Define and refine search keywords for Google:

**Step 2:** Apply (Modified Search Keywords) in Google search engine:\
**Step 3:** Export \[Search Results\]\
**Step 4:** Apply inclusion/exclusion criteria to \[Search Results
Collection A\]:\
To select the website relevant to our study.






<body>
<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p><strong>Inclusion criteria</strong></p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p><strong>Exclusion criteria</strong></p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p>Records are freely accessible by all party and available</p>
			<p>at any time</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p>Records are not freely accessible by all party and</p>
			<p>available at any time</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p>Records are in English</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p>Records are not in English</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p>Records can be digitized</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p>Records cannot be digitized</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p>Records are imported from imported from PhD Leeds Doctoral College - University of Leeds</p>
			</td>
			<td>
			<p>Records are imported from SlideShare, Quora, Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, personal (or company) blogs</p>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
</body>




## Data Analysis

Inclusion criteria and Exclusion criteria

\- Developing a model to include/exclude (case studies).

\- From Included Case Studies. This project will develop a model to
extract the Challenges and Opportunities. factors that impact Digital
Transformation on Performance and the Cultural Industry from the
included case studies.

\- Organizing those factors into identical groups

\- Those factors reflect the failure and the success of The Impact of
Digital Transformation on Performance and the Cultural Industry. Those
factors answered the research questions that we addressed in this
project

# Expected Results 

# Outline of Contribution

The paper aims to contribute to the field by providing a detailed
analysis of how digital transformation affects performance in the
cultural industry. It will offer insights into the specific challenges
faced by cultural organizations and highlight opportunities for
leveraging digital technologies. The findings will inform policy
recommendations and strategic planning for enhancing the sustainability
and resilience of the cultural sector in the digital age.

# Bibliography

\[1\] "Culture \| UNESCO." Accessed: Jun. 19, 2024. \[Online\].
Available: https://www.unesco.org/en/culture

\[2\] P. O. of the E. Union, "CELEX1, Green Paper - Unlocking the
potential of cultural and creative industries, /\* COM/2010/0183 final
\*/," Apr. 2010, Accessed: Jun. 19, 2024. \[Online\]. Available:
https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/1cb6f484-074b-4913-87b3-344ccf020eef/language-en

\[3\] D. Hesmondhalgh and A. C. Pratt, "Cultural industries and cultural
policy," *Int. J. Cult. Policy*, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 1--13, Mar. 2005,
doi: 10.1080/10286630500067598.

\[4\] "Digital transformation 1," Shamiya Mirzagayeva, Heydar Aslanov.
Accessed: Jun. 19, 2024. \[Online\]. Available:
https://web.archive.org/web/20221112173332/https://metafizikajurnali.az/storage/images/site/files/Metafizika-20/Metafizika.Vol.5,No.4,Serial.20,pp.10-21.pdf

\[5\] G. Vial, "Understanding digital transformation: A review and a
research agenda," *J. Strateg. Inf. Syst.*, vol. 28, no. 2, pp.
118--144, Jun. 2019, doi: 10.1016/J.JSIS.2019.01.003.

\[6\] K. S. R. Warner and M. Wäger, "Building dynamic capabilities for
digital transformation: An ongoing process of strategic renewal," *Long
Range Plann.*, vol. 52, no. 3, pp. 326--349, Jun. 2019, doi:
10.1016/J.LRP.2018.12.001.

\[7\] M. Dehnert, "Sustaining the current or pursuing the new: incumbent
digital transformation strategies in the financial service industry A
configurational perspective on firm performance", doi:
10.1007/s40685-020-00136-8.

\[8\] I. D. Affonso *et al.*, "Digital Transformation as a Tool for FPSO
Project Acceleration," *Proc. Annu. Offshore Technol. Conf.*, vol.
2020-May, May 2020, doi: 10.4043/30480-MS.

\[9\] C. Llopis-Albert, F. Rubio, and F. Valero, "Impact of digital
transformation on the automotive industry," *Technol. Forecast. Soc.
Change*, vol. 162, p. 120343, Jan. 2021, doi:
10.1016/J.TECHFORE.2020.120343.

\[10\] A. Naimi-Sadigh, T. Asgari, and M. Rabiei, "Digital
Transformation in the Value Chain Disruption of Banking Services," *J.
Knowl. Econ.*, vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 1212--1242, Jun. 2022, doi:
10.1007/S13132-021-00759-0.

\[11\] S. Manjula, P. Balaji, and N. Deepa, ") Sazelin Arif, Universiti
Teknikal Malaysia Melaka (UTeM), Malaysia. (3) Arjun Prasad Khanal,"
*Nepal. Rev. Artic. Manjula al*, no. 1, pp. 88--101, 2021, doi:
10.9734/AJAEES/2021/v39i1130729.

\[12\] F. Imran, K. Shahzad, A. Butt, and J. Kantola, "Journal of Change
Management Reframing Leadership and Organizational Practice Digital
Transformation of Industrial Organizations: Toward an Integrated
Framework," 2021, doi: 10.1080/14697017.2021.1929406.

\[13\] A. Kumar, R. Agrawal, V. A. Wankhede, M. Sharma, and E.
Mulat-weldemeskel, "A framework for assessing social acceptability of
industry 4.0 technologies for the development of digital manufacturing,"
*Technol. Forecast. Soc. Change*, vol. 174, p. 121217, Jan. 2022, doi:
10.1016/J.TECHFORE.2021.121217.

\[14\] Y. Ren, B. Li, and D. Liang, "Impact of digital transformation on
renewable energy companies' performance: Evidence from China," *Front.
Environ. Sci.*, vol. 10, Jan. 2023, doi: 10.3389/FENVS.2022.1105686.

\[15\] Q. ; Zhao *et al.*, "Analyzing the Relationship between Digital
Transformation Strategy and ESG Performance in Large Manufacturing
Enterprises: The Mediating Role of Green Innovation," *Sustain. 2023,
Vol. 15, Page 9998*, vol. 15, no. 13, p. 9998, Jun. 2023, doi:
10.3390/SU15139998.

\[16\] A. Sartal, R. Bellas, A. M. Mejías, and A. García-Collado, "The
sustainable manufacturing concept, evolution and opportunities within
Industry 4.0: A literature review," *Adv. Mech. Eng.*, vol. 12, no. 5,
May 2020, doi:
10.1177/1687814020925232/ASSET/IMAGES/LARGE/10.1177_1687814020925232-FIG2.JPEG.

\[17\] "Digital transformation in culture and art: Exploring the
challenges, opportunities and implications in cultural studies \|
Research Journal in Advanced Humanities." Accessed: Jun. 19, 2024.
\[Online\]. Available:
https://royalliteglobal.com/advanced-humanities/article/view/1236

\[18\] "Commission publishes two studies to map the challenges and
opportunities for cultural and creative sectors in the digital decade \|
Shaping Europe's digital future." Accessed: Jun. 19, 2024. \[Online\].
Available:
https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news/commission-publishes-two-studies-map-challenges-and-opportunities-cultural-and-creative-sectors

\[19\] "Digital Transformation of the Creative Industry." Accessed: Jun.
19, 2024. \[Online\]. Available:
https://www.valantic.com/en/industries/creative-industry/

\[20\] M. Massi, M. Vecco, and Y. Lin, *Digital transformation in the
cultural and creative industries : production, consumption and
entrepreneurship in the digital and sharing economy*. Accessed: Jun. 19,
2024. \[Online\]. Available:
https://www.routledge.com/Digital-Transformation-in-the-Cultural-and-Creative-Industries-Production-Consumption-and-Entrepreneurship-in-the-Digital-and-Sharing-Economy/Massi-Vecco-Lin/p/book/9780367351168

\[21\] "DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION IN THE CULTURAL AND CREATIVE SECTORS AND
INDUSTRIES - Executive Summary".
